[DRAFT] Initializes PartiQL-system interfaces and document. (#1480)
partiql/partiql-lang-kotlin: partiql-planner/README.adoc

| Function | A _Function_ is a PartiQL-routine which can be invoked from an expression context. A _Function_ is unique within a scope by its name and formal arguments (parameters); therefore its name may be overloaded like in SQL.
| Statistics | A _Statistics_ object is used by the query planner for table statistics and metadata such as available keys and indexes. This is currently a placeholder.
| Session | The _Session_ holds the current scope and PATH for name resolution.

|===

== Name Resolution

The following section gives a high-level description of the name resolution rules for tables and routines.

NOTE: A name is composed of _n_ steps and can be qualified (_n > 1_) or unqualified (_n = 1_). A _relative_ name begins with a step whereas an _absolute_ name begins with a leading period.

[source]
----
name
 :     id ('.' id*)*  # relative
 | '.' id ('.' id*)*  # absolute
 ;
----

[cols="1e,4"]
|===
| Type | Example

| Relative Name |  `n~1~.---.n~n~`
| Absolute Name | `.n~1~.---.n~n~`

|===

=== Table Resolution

Let _N_ be a name with steps _n~1~ . n~2~ ... n~i~_ and let _S_ be the session scope with name _s~1~_ ... _s~j~_.

> . Let _T_ be the fully-qualified table name.

Author: Yes, you can have a relative-qualified path.

```sql
x.y.z     -- relative-qualified
.a.b.c    -- absolute-qualified
```

I don't think "qualified" adds any value here though, and should just be "relative name" and "absolute name".

.. If _N_ is a relative name, then _T = s~1~ . s~2~ ... s~j~ . n~1~ . n~2~. ... n~i~_ .
.. If _N_ is an absolute name, then _T = n~1~ . n~2~ ... n~i~_ .
. Let _n_ be the number of steps in _T = t~1~ . t~2~ ... t~n~_ .
. Find the largest _m ≤ n_ such that _t~1~ . t~2~ ... t~m~_ is a database name.
. Any remaining _t~m+1~ ...t~n~_ are path navigations.

NOTE: Examples to follow.

=== Routine Lookup

> Let _N_ be a routine name with steps _n~1~ . n~2~ ... n~i~_ and let _S_ be the session scope with name _s~1~_ ... _s~j~_.
> 
> . If n = 1 then the session path is searched left-to-right for _n~1~_.
> . If n > 1, then let _R_ be the fully-qualified routine name.
> .. If _N_ is a relative name, then _R = s~1~ . s~2~ ... s~j~ . n~1~ . n~2~. ... n~i~_ .
> .. If _N_ is an absolute name, then _R = n~1~ . n~2~ ... n~i~_ .
> . Lookup the fully-qualified name _R_ and fail compilation if not found.

Reviewer: Regarding "fully-qualified" vs "absolute", I think the following suggestion is a bit more clear.

```suggestion
Let _N_ be the routine invocation name (absolute or relative) with steps _n1_, _n2_, …​, _ni_. Let _S_ be the session scope with name _.s1.s2. …​ sj_. Let _R_ by the absolute name of the invoked routine.

1. If _N_ is an absolute name, then _R = . n1 . n2 …​ ni_ . Return _R_.
2. If n = 1 then the function path is searched left-to-right for _n1_.
3. If n > 1, then _R = . s1 . s2 …​ sj . n1 . n2. …​ ni_ .
4. Lookup the absolute name _R_. Return _R_ if found. Fail compilation if not found.
```

Maybe the "function path" should be SQL Path or invocation path. Up to you.

Author: Typo, it should have been "session path"
